# Test Results Directory

This directory is home to test result reported by integration test
runs. Each directory found here contains the full set of results
generate by deploying and running tests on OpenCHAMI using vTDS. Each
directory is named using the version string corresponding to the
version of OpenCHAMI Release under test, combined with a date /
time-stamp to differentiate different runs of the same version.

Each test run directory containsthe following files and directories:

- `config.yaml` contains the vTDS configuration file driving the test run
- `vtds-build` is the root of the build directory tree containing all
  logs and other relevant data produced during the test run.
- `deploy_output.txt` contains the current (or final) output from the
   `vtds deploy` and `vtds remove` commands used to deploy and remove
   the OpenCHAMI cluster under test.
- `raw_test_results.txt` contains the raw generated results from each
  test rn on the OpenCHAMI Cluster.
- `status` contains the current (or final) status of the test run

Of these, `raw_test_result.txt` and `status` are intended to be somewhat
machine readable while still being reasonably human readable at the same
time. `raw_test_results.txt` is produced at the end of a test run and
gathers the outcome and test output (if any) of each test run into a
single file. The fields of interest for each test listed in the file
are:

- `TEST_NAME`
- `TEST_DESCRIPTION`
- `TEST_ENTRYPOINT`
- `TEST_RESULT`
- `TEST_TIMEOUT`
- `TEST_DEPENDENCIES_FAILED`

The `TEST_NAME` field identifies the test by name. The
`TEST_DESCRIPTION` field summarizes the purpose of the test. The
`TEST_ENTRYPOINT` field identifies the executable file on the OpenCHAMI
Cluster management node from which the test is initiated by vTDS. The
`TEST_RESULT` field indicates, `SUCCESS`, `FAILURE` or
`SUPPRESSED`. `SUCCESS` indicates that the test ran successfully to
completion. `FAILURE` indicates that the test either failed functionally
or timed out while running. `SUPPRESSED` indicates that the test had one
or more dependencies that failed or were suppressed, preventing the test
from running. In the case that the test timed out, there will be a
`TEST_TIMEOUT` field naming the test and showing the timeout interval
the test exceeded. If the test was suppressed there will be a
`TEST_DEPENDENCIES_FAILED` field naming the failed or suppressed test
dependency or dependencies that caused the test to be suppressed. In
addition to these fields, the test results for each test contain a `Test
Output` section containing any output generated by the test itself. Test
results in `raw_test_results.txt` are preceded by a line of text set off
by 8 `+` (plus) signs at the beginning and end of the line that
identifies the log file in the `vtds-build` tree from which the test
results were collected.  So, a complete test result in the file might
look like this:

```
++++++++ vtds-build/cluster/logs/TEST-CASE-compute-node-ssh-on-management-001-out.txt ++++++++
TEST_NAME: compute-node-ssh
TEST_DESCRIPTION: A simple test that waits for the compute nodes configured within the OpenCHAMI cluster to become available and then verifies that each one can be reached from the rocky user on the management (head) node using SSH. 
TEST_ENTRYPOINT: /home/rocky/cluster_tests/compute_node_ssh/entrypoint.sh
TEST_RESULT: SUCCESS
======== Test Output ========
Attempting to SSH to nid-001.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-001 port 22: Connection refused
.Warning: Permanently added 'nid-001' (ED25519) to the list of known hosts.
Attempting to SSH to nid-002.ssh: connect to host nid-002 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-002 port 22: Connection refused
.Warning: Permanently added 'nid-002' (ED25519) to the list of known hosts.
Attempting to SSH to nid-003.ssh: connect to host nid-003 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-003 port 22: Connection refused
.Warning: Permanently added 'nid-003' (ED25519) to the list of known hosts.
Attempting to SSH to nid-004.ssh: connect to host nid-004 port 22: Connection refused
.ssh: connect to host nid-004 port 22: Connection refused
.Warning: Permanently added 'nid-004' (ED25519) to the list of known hosts.
```

The `status` file contains the current or final status of the test at
any given point in time. It is updated periodically during the test run
and at the end of the test run. A typical `status` file looks like this
at the end of a test run:

```
Mon Mar 30 16:34:06 UTC 2026: PENDING
Mon Mar 30 16:34:20 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 16:39:20 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 16:44:20 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 16:49:20 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 16:54:20 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 16:59:20 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 17:04:21 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 17:09:21 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 17:14:21 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 17:19:21 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 17:24:21 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 17:29:21 UTC 2026: DEPLOYING
Mon Mar 30 17:31:35 UTC 2026: DEPLOYED
Mon Mar 30 17:34:37 UTC 2026: REMOVING
Mon Mar 30 17:40:08 UTC 2026: REMOVED
Mon Mar 30 17:40:26 UTC 2026: COMPLETE
```

This shows the normal sequence of states a test will run through,
starting in `PENDING` which indicates that the test deployment has been
initiated but no deployment has started yet. The test then moves to
`DEPLOYING` which will take some time, so it will be reported
periodically until the deployment completes. In this case the deployment
completed successfully, so the `DEPLOYED` state is recorded followed by
the `REMOVING` state indicating that the test deployment is being
removed (i.e. any resources it uses are being released). In this case
the removal succeeded, so the `REMOVED` state is recorded followed by a
`COMPLETE` state indicating that the deployment and testing are no
longer running.

If deployment fails, the next state recorded is `DEPLOY_FAILED`
instead of `DEPLOYED` indicating that the deployment failed. Removal
will still be attempted after a deployment fails. If removal fails,
either after a successful or failed deployment, the state following
`REMOVING` will be `REMOVE_FAILED`. If deployment times out a state of
`DEPLOY_TIMED_OUT` will be recorded in addition to
`DEPLOY_FAILED`. Similarly, if removal times out a state of
`REMOVE_TIMED_OUT` will be recorded in addition to `REMOVE_FAILED`.

If the mechanism that reports these status updates itself fails, the
`status` file will not reach a `COMPLETE` state, and the time stamps
will indicate the last updated time. A human or automated tool auditing
the status of test runs can then use the most recent time stamp to
detect a failed or stuck test and clean up after it.

An example test run can be found in
[v0.1.2-example](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/openchami-vtds/tree/main/test_results/v0.1.2-example).
This is a sample run of the vTDS based OpenCHAMI tests against the
`v0.1.2` tagged version of
[OpenCHAMI Release](https://github.com/OpenCHAMI/release).
This test run includes a set of meta-tests that are not normally run but
demonstrate what happens when a test fails, has dependencies that
succeed, has dependencies that fail (is suppressed), has
dependencies that are suppressed (aggain is suppressed), and times out.

It is worth noting that a successful deployment of the test system
does not indicate that all of the tests passed. All tests that are
enabled in the configuration, and have not been suppressed due to a
failed dependency, run and report their results at the end of a
deployment. Reaching the `DEPLOYED` state simply indicates that the
tests have run, and reaching the `COMPLETE` state simply indicates
that the test run has completed. The test results themselves must be
examined to determine the success or failure of the test run.
